# Contents

* [Preface](#preface)
  * [Purpose of the Document](#purpose-of-the-document)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  * [Step-by-Step Guidance](#step-by-step-guidance)
  * [Optional Exercises](#optional-exercises)

# Preface

Welcome to the Hands-on watsonx.ai guide! This document is designed to
provide you with a comprehensive, step-by-step approach to setting up
and utilizing IBM's watsonx.ai platform. Whether you are a beginner or
an experienced user, this guide will help you navigate through the
various stages of environment provisioning, project creation, model
tuning, and deployment.

## Purpose of the Document

The primary goal of this document is to facilitate your learning and
application of watsonx.ai's capabilities. By following the detailed
instructions provided, you will be able to:

- **Provision the Environment**: Set up and activate your watsonx.ai
  environment.

- **Create and Manage Projects**: Understand how to create projects,
  associate services, and retrieve necessary credentials.

- **Interact with Models**: Explore the Prompt Lab, interact with AI
  models, and experiment with prompt tuning.

- **Use APIs**: Learn how to make API calls for text generation and
  handle access tokens.

- **Tune Models**: Fine-tune models using labeled data and run tuning
  experiments.

- **Deploy and Run Inference**: Deploy tuned models and run inference to
  test their capabilities.

- **Utilize AutoAI RAG**: Leverage AutoAI RAG for building and deploying
  AI models that generate context-aware responses.

- **Explore Agent development**: Get familiar with the capabilities
  provided for developing Agents with the platform

## Prerequisites

This guide is designed to be accessible to users with a wide range of
experience levels. No prerequisites are required to complete the base
exercises, which are fully guided and self-contained.

For the optional exercises, some prior experience with Python
programming and familiarity with working in notebook environments (such
as Jupyter) will be helpful. These exercises are designed to encourage
hands-on exploration beyond the provided instructions and may involve
writing or modifying small code snippets.

## Step-by-Step Guidance

This guide is structured to provide clear, step-by-step instructions for
each task. It is essential to follow these steps carefully to ensure
successful completion of the lab exercises. The figures included in the
document are crucial for visualizing the process and should be referred
to as you progress through each section.

## Optional Exercises

In addition to the guided steps, some lab exercises include optional
parts that are intentionally left without detailed guidance. These
sections are designed to encourage you to apply what you have learned
and explore the platform independently. By engaging with these optional
exercises, you will:

- **Enhance Your Understanding**: Reinforce your knowledge by putting
  theory into practice.

- **Develop Problem-Solving Skills**: Tackle challenges and find
  solutions using the skills acquired.

- **Foster Creativity**: Experiment with different approaches and
  discover new possibilities within the watsonx.ai environment.

We hope this guide serves as a valuable resource in your journey to
mastering watsonx.ai. Happy learning and experimenting!

[back to navigation](./)